Autonomous Cyber Threat Hunting Platform

Project Overview:
This project is an AI-driven cybersecurity platform that proactively detects and mitigates threats within an enterprise network. It combines machine learning-based anomaly detection, threat intelligence feeds, and SOAR (Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response) automation to provide real-time threat monitoring and automated mitigation.

Key Features

AI-Powered Threat Detection: Detects anomalies in network traffic and system events with high accuracy using machine learning models.

Threat Intelligence Integration: Cross-references flagged activities with APIs like AlienVault OTX, AbuseIPDB, and VirusTotal to improve detection reliability.

SOAR Automation: Automatically mitigates threats by performing actions like IP blocking, endpoint isolation, and generating alerts, reducing incident response time.

Real-Time Dashboard: Visualizes detected threats and network security status using Kibana or Python-based visualization tools.

Scalable Architecture: Modular design allows easy addition of new detection rules, TI feeds, and automated workflows.

Tech Stack

Programming Languages: Python 3.x

Machine Learning: TensorFlow, scikit-learn, pandas, numpy

Logging & Monitoring: ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)

Threat Intelligence APIs: AlienVault OTX, AbuseIPDB, VirusTotal

Automation & Orchestration: SOAR scripts using Python

Project Architecture

Log Collection Module: Continuously gathers network logs and system events.

Feature Extraction & AI Analysis: Extracts key features and feeds them to ML models for anomaly detection.

Threat Intelligence Correlation: Matches detected anomalies with TI feeds to assign threat severity.

SOAR Automation Module: Executes mitigation actions automatically based on threat severity.

Dashboard & Visualization: Displays real-time analytics and threat metrics.

Installation & Setup

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/autonomous-cyber-threat-hunter.git
cd autonomous-cyber-threat-hunter


Install Python dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt


Set up ELK Stack locally or connect to an existing ELK instance.

Configure Threat Intelligence API keys in config/api_keys.json.

Run modules sequentially:

python src/collector.py
python src/analyzer.py
python src/ti_integration.py
python src/soar.py


Optional: Launch dashboard:

streamlit run src/dashboard.py

Usage

Monitor enterprise network traffic in real-time.

Detect and classify potential cyber threats using AI.

Automatically respond to threats using SOAR automation.

Visualize threat patterns and metrics via the dashboard.

Results & Metrics

Detection Accuracy: 97% for network anomalies and malicious activity.

Incident Response Improvement: Reduced response time by 65% with automated mitigation.

Continuous Monitoring: Real-time threat detection and alerting.

Contributing

Contributions are welcome! You can:

Add new machine learning models for threat detection.

Integrate additional Threat Intelligence APIs.

Enhance automation workflows for SOAR capabilities.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License – see the LICENSE file for details.